nPose uses one notecard to give the nPose engine all the information
it needs for each pose set (one notecard for each pose set or other
button on the menus).  A pose set can be one sitter or multiple
sitters.  (See Below)

Menus:
----------------------

nPose builds its menus from the names of notecards that you
provide. This makes it easy to add new animations, or sets of
animations, or buttons that do other things. It is important to
remember that nPose uses the NAMES of the notecards to build the
structure of the menus and sub-menus, and the CONTENTS of the notecard
to control what the menu buttons do. This isn't as confusing as it
sounds. SET is a key word for nPose and gives the engine a heads up
that this notecard contains a pose.  Use a colon ":" as the sub menu
separator.

Examples of notecards named:

SET:Sleep
SET:Sit:GirlSit
SET:Sit:BoySit2
SET:Sit:TinySit3
SET:Stand:Shy-stand1
SET:Stand:Hero-stand

The names of notecards above would give a menu with 3 user buttons at
the top level, Sleep, Sit, and Stand. Then within the "Sit" menu (as a
sub-menu) one would see GirlSit, Boysit2, and Tinysit3. Stand would
contain a sub menu with two buttons (Shy, and Hero).  Shy would have a
sub menu of one button with the name "stand1", and Hero would have a
sub menu with one button named "stand".  Remember, menu structure is
determined by the NAMES of your notecards! We'll get to the contents
of the notecards in just a bit.

Now, there are several types of notecards that nPose recognizes and it
uses them for different purposes. The most common of these are the SET
notecards. These are the ones we showed above, and they are usually
used to make animation poses or sets. . The first part of the notecard
name will be the TYPE of notecard (we are using SET). This is always
followed by a colon ":", and after the colon, the menu and sub-menu
buttons. Let's look at a particular example:

This is a simple example that puts up a menu that doesn't do much. It
contains one notecard named

    SET:Pose1

􀀀

which is empty. Empty notecards are allowed by nPose, they just don't
do much except give a menu button.  (A few exceptions are for nPose
built-in functions.)


SubMenus:
----------------------------

The number of submenus that nPose supports is only limited to the
number of characters allowed by SL. Setting up the submenus is very
easy.  The nPose engine uses the notecard NAMES to build menus.  For
two submenus, one for Singles and one for Couples, simply add them to
the notecard name with the colon ":" separator as follows:


SET:Singles:Pose1
SET:Singles:Pose2
....


Now the root menu will have a button with "Singles" on it.  To get to
the poses (Pose1 and Pose2), the user clicks the "Singles" button and
another menu will come up, showing Pose1 and Pose2. Add some more
notecards named as follows:


SET:Couples:Pose1
SET:Couples:Pose2
...


Now the root menu will have two buttons (Singles and Couples), each
with two poses. Unlike other systems, there is no problem in nPose to
have the same name button on different sub-menus. Remember, what the
button does is determined by the CONTENTS of the notecards, not by the
name.

The following object is a demo of what the menu would be like with all
the above notecards inside of nPose.  They will not actually do
anything at this time as the notecards are empty.

Rez the nPose Menu Demo 2 and click it for the menu.

  􀀁

_______________________________________________________________________________________

Summary of Notecard types:

Remember, nPose uses the NAME of its notecards to determine the menu
structure and button names. It uses the CONTENTS of the notecard to
determine what it does. This is true for all of the types of
notecards, except that different types are used to perform different
functions. The type of notecard is determined by the first part of the
name, that is, by everything in front of the first colon (":"). Don't
put in spaces, this is a common error!


Notecard TYPE           Use
-----------------           ------------------------------------
SET                             Animations and poses, can send messages
DEFAULT                     Animations and poses, can send messages
BTN                            Send messages to scripts
SEQ                            Define sequences of pose sets.


It is important not to use SET and DEFAULT types unless you want an
animation to play or be reset. If you want, for example, just to turn
music on or off, use BTN, not SET. You'd use SET when you want music
to turn on, AND the avatar to start dancing. For more advanced users,
the difference is that SET and DEFAULT have side effects, but BTN does
not. If a SET notecard has fewer ANIM lines (see below) than the
number of avatars currently sitting on the object, nPose will kick
some of them off.

More details on each type are provided below:

==============SET=====================

    This notecard is most commonly used to tell the nPose engine it
    has an animation within.  It defines the number of sitters, their
    pose, their position and rotation and facial expressions.  It can
    also be used for doing specific things when someone sits or when
    someone stands.  Props can be rezzed specific to a scene. Messages
    can be sent to other scripts. The general format of the text
    inside a SET notecard to trigger an animation is (without spacing
    before the ANIM or other keyword):


	ANIM|meditation|<-0.3,0,0.8>|<0,0,0>


where ANIM says that this line describes an animation, and "mediation"
is the name of the animation (which must be included in the nPose
object), and the rest is a position offset and rotation. There is one
ANIM line for each avatar who can sit on the nPose object. You can put
<0,0,0> for both position and rotation, and use the nPose adjustment
tool to find the proper values. We'll describe how later. You can also
include LINKMSG and other types of lines in the SET notecards, and
those will be described later
also. =====================================

=============DEFAULT===================

    This notecard is the same as SET except it's contents become the
    default pose set when nPose is first initialized.  If no DEFAULT
    notecard is included in the contents of the nPose object, nPose
    will use the first notecard in the contents (alpabetically) as a
    DEFAULT.

(Do not add the same notecard as a DEFAULT and also as a SET as this
will only confuse the nPose engine.)

=====================================


=============BTN=====================

    This notecard type is used to send messages to other scripts
    immediately and typically used to communicate with other scripts
    (mostly plugin scripts) in the nPose build or props.  This is a
    powerful notecard type and can be used for a wide variety of
    things.

 The most common thing to put in BTN notecard is LINKMSG lines. These
 have the general format (again without leading spaces):


	LINKMSG|msg-number|user-string|some-key


 where msg-number is some number set by convention (see the LINKMSG
messages notecard) and the remaining (optional) fields are defined by
the message number. =====================================


=============SEQ========================

    This notecard type is used to setup sequences of pose sets.  It
    communicates to the modified Rygel sequencer script. Details are
    provided later.






=============Lines inside notecards=============


'COMMAND'|'POSE NAME'|'POSITION VECTOR'|'ROTATION VECTOR'|


Notecard commands supported: The nPose engine sorts out what it needs
to do with any particular line by the first word of the line:
Supported commands are as follows: ANIM This tells the nPose engine
that this line contains information about an animation.


    ANIM|meditation|<-0.0,0,0.0>|<0,0,0>


    In the above example nPose is going to look in contents for the
    animation named "meditation" and position the seated AV with the
    first vector (at the very center of the root prim and rotate the
    AV with the second vector or zero rotation.  This is a good
    example to use and adjusting can be done later.


PROP

    This tells the nPose engine that this line contains information
    about a prop that is to be rezzed when this pose set is selected.

    PROP|Lamp|<-0.0,0,0.0>|<0,0,0>

    In the above example nPose will look in its contents for an object
    by the name of "Lamp".  The Lamp will be rezzed at the very center
    of the root prim with zero rotation.  If the Lamp contains the
    nPose Prop plugin script it will chat to local any new position
    once it has been moved.  The line in local can be copied and
    pasted into the notecard containing the above line for permanent
    new position and rotation.


LINKMSG

    This tells the nPose engine that this line contains the
    information about a message to be sent out to other scripts.
    LINKMSGs are sent out as soon as they have been read from the
    notecard.

    LINKMSG|-999|RezHud

    In the above example when nPose reads this line, it will generate
    a message and send it out to all scripts in the build.  The
    message will have a unique identifier of "-999" and will send the
    message "RezHud" for any scripts that are looking for this unique
    identifier.  The message "RezHud" must mean something to some
    script.  In this particular case a script is looking for this
    message and interprets the message as a command to rez the admin
    hud to be temp attached to the owner's AV.


SATMSG

    This tells the nPose engine that this line contains information
    about what to do when someone sits this seat.  These are exactly
    the same as the LINKMSG above except they are saved and only sent
    out if and when a new AV sits in this seat.

    SATMSG|5001|Mmmmmmhhooo|

    In the above example when a new AV sits in this seat, this message
    of "Mmmmmmhhooo" will be sent out with the unique identifier of
    "5001" for any listening script to act upon.  In this particular
    case a plugin is looking for the unique identifier and will say in
    local the message.


NOTSATMSG

    This tells the nPose engine that this line contains information
    about what to do when someone move or stands from this seat.  It
    is exactly like the LINKMSG or SATMSG except for when it is sent
    out.

    NOTSATMSG|5001|Ohhmmmmmm

    In the above example when the AV seated in this seat moves to
    another seat or stands, the message of "Ohhmmmmmm" will be said in
    local.
